# Introduction

scoutfs is a clustered in-kernel Linux filesystem designed and built
from the ground up to support large archival systems.

Its key differentiating features are:

 - Integrated consistent indexing to accelerate archival maintenance operations
 - Shared LSM index structure to scale metadata rates with storage bandwidth
 - Decoupled logical locking from serialized device writes to reduce contention

It meets best of breed expectations:

 * Fully consistent POSIX semantics between nodes
 * Rich metadata to ensure the integrity of metadata references
 * Atomic transactions to maintain consistent persistent structures
 * First class kernel implementation for high performance and low latency
 * Open GPLv2 implementation
 
Learn more in the [white paper](https://docs.wixstatic.com/ugd/aaa89b_88a5cc84be0b4d1a90f60d8900834d28.pdf).

# Current Status

**Initial Alpha Open Source Release**

scoutfs is under heavy active development.  We're releasing before it's
completely polished to give the community an opportunity to affect the
design and implementation.  Nothing is cast in stone. 

The core architectural design elements are in place.  Much surrounding
functionality hasn't been implemented.  It's appropriate for early
adopters and interested developers, not for production use.

In that vein, expect significant incompatible changes to both the format
of network messages and persistent structures.  To avoid mistakes the
implementation currently calculates a hash of the format and ioctl
header files in the source tree.  The kernel module will refuse to mount
a volume created by userspace utilities with a mismatched hash, and it
will refuse to connect to a remote node with a mismatched hash.  This
means having to unmount, mkfs, and remount everything across many
functional changes.  Once the format is nailed down we'll wire up
forward and back compat machinery and remove this temporary safety
measure. 

The current kernel module is developed against the RHEL/CentOS 7.x
kernel to minimize the friction of developing and testing with partners'
existing infrastructure.  Once we're happy with the design we'll shift
development to the upstream kernel while maintaining distro
compatibility branches.

# Community Mailing List

Please join us on the open scoutfs-devel@scoutfs.org [mailing list
hosted on Google Groups](https://groups.google.com/a/scoutfs.org/forum/#!forum/scoutfs-devel)
for all discussion of scoutfs.

# Quick Start

**This following a very rough example of the procedure to get up and
running, experience will be needed to fill in the gaps.  We're happy to
help on the mailing list.**

__Some software components (pacemaker?) may be packaged seperately by
distributions.__

The requirements for running scoutfs on a small cluster are:

 1. One or more nodes running x86-64 CentOS/RHEL 7.4 (or 7.3)
 2. Access to a single shared block device
 3. IPv4 connectivity between the nodes

The steps for getting scoutfs mounted and operational are:

 1. Configure pacemaker clustering and the kernel DLM for locking
 2. Get the kernel module running on the nodes
 3. Make a new filesystem on the device with the userspace utilities
 4. Mount the device on all the nodes

In this example we run all of these commands on two nodes.  The block
device name is the same on all the nodes.  The listen= mount option is
given the local IP address of each node. 

1. Configure and Start the DLM


   ```shell
   yum install pcs pacemaker fence-agents-all
   firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service=high-availability
   firewall-cmd --add-service=high-availability
   passwd hacluster
   systemctl start pcsd.service
   systemctl enable pcsd.service
   pcs cluster auth node1 node2
   pcs cluster setup --start --name scoutfs node1 node2
   pcs cluster enable

   yum install dlm
   systemctl enable dlm
   systemctl start dlm
   ```

2. Get the Kernel Module and Userspace Binaries

   * Either use snapshot RPMs built from git by Versity:

   ```shell
   rpm -i https://scoutfs.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/scoutfs-repo-0.0.1-1.el7_4.noarch.rpm
   yum install scoutfs-utils kmod-scoutfs
   ```

   * Or use the binaries built from checked out git repositories:

   ```shell
   yum install kernel-devel
   git clone git@github.com:versity/scoutfs-kmod-dev.git
   make -C scoutfs-kmod-dev module 
   modprobe libcrc32c
   insmod scoutfs-kmod-dev/src/scoutfs.ko

   git clone git@github.com:versity/scoutfs-utils-dev.git
   make -C scoutfs-utils-dev
   alias scoutfs=$PWD/scoutfs-utils-dev/src/scoutfs

   ```

3. Make a New Filesystem (**destroys contents, no questions asked**) 

   ```shell
   scoutfs mkfs /dev/shared_block_device
   ```


4. Mount the Filesystem 

   ```shell
   mkdir /mnt/scoutfs
   mount -t scoutfs -o cluster=scoutfs,listen=node_ip_address \
	/dev/shared_block_device /mnt/scoutfs

   ```

5. For Kicks, Observe the Metadata Change Index

   The `meta_seq` index tracks the inodes that are changed in each
   transaction.

   ```shell
   scoutfs walk-inodes meta_seq 0 -1 /mnt/scoutfs
   touch /mnt/scoutfs/one; sync
   scoutfs walk-inodes meta_seq 0 -1 /mnt/scoutfs
   touch /mnt/scoutfs/two; sync
   scoutfs walk-inodes meta_seq 0 -1 /mnt/scoutfs
   touch /mnt/scoutfs/one; sync
   scoutfs walk-inodes meta_seq 0 -1 /mnt/scoutfs
   ```
